---
layout: page
title: "Practicum"
doodle: "/doodle.png"
---

You will have a practicum assignment most weeks, which will involve preparing a
presentation, rubric, or other work outside of class to share with a group. The
topics and preparation will vary, and will be posted here as they are filled
assigned.

## Micro-teach I (Practicum assignment, Weeks 3 & 4)

This practicum asks you to revisit the presentation you prepared before (in the
Micro video) and continue to practice the same core skills. We'll throw in a
more interactive component and ask you to present live and handle actual
questions from students as they arise.

Prepare a 5-minute discussion section for our in-class practicum. Keep the same
topic of your video from last week, and make sure to refine your presentation
based on the observations you made when watching the video. Now that you'll be
presenting "live", in the middle of your explanation, you should expect
questions from the "audience" that will force you to take your explanation in a
slightly different direction. This week we want you to continue to focus on
good whiteboard practices, while also structuring your presentation to work
towards a learning outcome (see the resources for week 3) you have for your
"students": what do you want them to be able to do after participating in this
discussion?

To make sure there is time for discussion and feedback, only half the students
in each group will present in each of the two weeks dedicated to this practicum
assignment.  THe first three students listed in each group in this Piazza post
will present in week 3, while the last three will present in week 4.   If you
are not presenting, it is your job to make the experience as authentic for the
"TA" as possible: role-play as though you were a student attending discussion
section, ask questions when appropriate, and participate.

After each TA presents their micro-teach, there will be time for reflection.

## Elevator Pitch (Practicum assignment, Due Week 2)

As a TA, you can serve as a role model and mentor for your students. They may
ask for your advice about their career, beyond the specific class you are
TAing. It's useful to think ahead to how you'd respond to some common
questions.

This week, you'll present a short reply to one of the following prompts:

- How does the material in this class (choose the class you are currently TAing)
  relate to what I'll do in my career after UCSD? Note that because of the 1 minute time
  limit, you'll need to pick a very specific example to speak about!

- How did you know you wanted to be a Computer Scientist / software engineer?

- What's your favorite fact in about Computer Science? What's a favorite
  technological innovation?

- How do you choose between graduate school and industry after graduation?

Your goal is to say something meaningful, correct, interesting, and useful
within the allotted time frame: one minute.

If you choose, you may use the white board during your presentation. Make sure
to rehearse and give yourself lots of time to prepare and polish your oral
presentation as well; 60 seconds go by very quickly if you don't plan them
carefully.

In the practicum session this week, each of your group members will present
their “elevator pitch”. If you have more time, try improvising answers to some
of the other questions. What are the characteristics of effective answers?

