---
layout: page
title: "Portfolio"
doodle: "/doodle.png"
---

Your CSE 599 Portfolios should consist of a Google Drive folder which you share
with me (jpolitz@eng.ucsd.edu) and Reshul Dani (rdani@eng.ucsd.edu).    In this
folder you will place the following documents (over the course of the quarter):

## TA role log (Google doc, updated weekly)

At the beginning of the quarter, you will use the ASES form to establish your
roles and responsibilities as a TA. Documenting and assessing your activities
as a TA will help you evaluate if you are spending your time and energy
effectively and in line with the expectations of your instructor. On a weekly
basis,

- **Record the number of hours** you spent total on your TA duties, and how those
  hours were divided across various tasks. Each TA job is different, so your
  hour allocation may be different from others. Typical activities include:
  discussion section, lab, assignment writeup preparation, assignment
  administration (grading scripts, turnin scripts), general admin / prep,
  Piazza Q&A, lecture attendance, office hours, etc.

- **Celebrate a (small) victory.** Find some aspect of your TA job that you did
  particular well or that worked particularly effectively this week. It's
  important to reaffirm why we do what we do, and to take time to make note of
  even small accomplishments. Did you see an idea "click" for a student after
  you worked with him/her? Did you collaborate with your fellow TAs to come up
  with well-motivated, well-structured examples for discussion section? Were
  you recognized by a student on campus? (Of course, these are just a few
  examples, your victory may be something completely different.)

- **Plan to refine and iterate.** What didn't work as well as you would have
  liked this week? What can you do next week (or next term? or next year?) to
  improve it? 

**Minimum passing threshold**: Each weekly entry must address all three
components outlined above. The reflections must start by week 2 and there can
be no more than a one-week gap between entries on your TA activities. For
example, reflections on your week 1, week 3, week 5, and week 7, and 9
activities would meet the minimum passing threshold.  But we expect you to
reflect most weeks.

## Micro-Teach Video and Reflection (week 2 assignment, reflection document with link to video)

The next piece you will include in your portfolio is your assignment from Week
2: Your micro-teach video and reflection.   

- First, record yourself teaching a technical concept. You may choose any
  concept you wish. Possible examples include (but are not limited to):
  deleting an element from a linked list, analyzing the Big-O running time of
  an algorithm, a sorting algorithm, event handling in Java, etc. Make sure
  your topic is small enough in scope that the explanation reasonably fits into
  3-4 minutes. The video must show your body and your voice should be clearly
  audible. You are expected to use a whiteboard or other visual aids as you
  would when explaining this concept in discussion section or office hours. The
  emphasis for this assignment is on basic skills:

- Board work: make sure to write clearly, large enough, use enough colors, and organize your drawing/writing appropriately
- Speaking skills: speak clearly, to the camera, use eye contact, state clearly what you are explaining

This video is a starting point that you will build from over the course of the
quarter, so don't go overboard making the video perfect. You should prepare,
and make sure that you know what you are going to say, but some mistakes and
stumbles are OK. Just do your best at this point. Also, if you prepared a
similar video as part of your TA application, feel free to use the same one or
some modification of it. 

Submit your video by placing it on YouTube or another file sharing service
(e.g. github). You should all have a YouTube account through your eng.ucsd.edu
account. You can make is a private video as long as you share it with me
(cjalvarado@eng.ucsd.edu) and our TA (rdani@eng.ucsd.edu). You may also choose
to make the video public. It's up to you. 

Next, the hard part. **Watch the video.** It's always uncomfortable to watch
yourself. But remember, everyone in the class will have to do the same thing.
Use the [Teaching Feedback
Form](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1lO-zdS7y8PczGe9W8ohqKocjrMhJWd4VtELZvewNAQs)
(make a copy) for your reflection on your video, and make sure to include a
link to the video  at the top of this form. Relate your comments and
observations to the **Characteristics of effective feedback** at the bottom of
the form.  Include the completed form/reflection in your portfolio. 



## Teaching Reflections

Your portfolio must include a minimum of one reflection on your own teaching,
and one reflection on someone else's teaching. The exception to this rule is is
that if you are not teaching a discussion section this quarter, you may submit
two reflections of someone else's teaching.  You are welcome to have more.  

For your observation of another class, your your assignment is to observe one
of the classes listed below, or any other class using an active learning
technique, and answer the questions listed below, and then post your responses
to these questions in a reflection document that you will post to Piazza **and
include a copy of in your portfolio**.

Each of these instructors have volunteered their class as one that incorporates
some kind of active learning activity.   The list will be expanded if/when I
recruit other participating instructors, but if you want to get the assignment
done early choose one of the classes below.  You may also observe another class
that you know uses active learning, but you may not observe a class that you
are taking (OK to observe a class you are TA'ing for).

While you observe the class make sure to take notes. Questions you must answer
as homework for week 6 are listed below, but you must also answer them in
response to a discussion post on Piazza here, so you are welcome to take notes
on your computer rather then on paper.

Here are your options for observation.  Also, remember many of these classes
have seating charts and/or are very full, so please allow students to take
their seats first and fill in empty seats only a few minutes into class. Please
don't be late or leave early, as it can disrupt the class.

- CSE 8A (Intro to Java): MWF	9:00 AM - 9:50 AM	CENTR 119, 	MWF	10:00 AM - 10:50 AM	CENTR 109 
- CSE 8B (Intro to Java II): MWF	8:00 AM - 8:50 AM	PCYNH 106 **Avoid Apr 27, May 11**
- CSE 131 (Compiler Construction): MWF 9-9:50 CENTR 109 **Avoid May 4**
- CSE 141 (Intro to Computer Architecture): TR 9:30a-10:50a WLH 2005
- CSE 105 (Introduction to the Theory of Computation): MWF 10-11, 11-12, CENTER 119 **Avoid Apr 25, May 3**
  [Please identify yourself as a TA to the instructor for CSE 105 a few minutes before class]

The questions to answer (post on Piazza, and include as a document in your
portfolio)

- Describe the active learning exercise (or exercises) that took place in the
  class you attended.
- What evidence of learning did you see during the active learning exercise?
- How widespread was this evidence (how many students in the class displayed
  it?  How much content in the class was this evidence displayed for? Etc)
- Do you think there were there advantages of this active learning exercise
  over a traditional lecture style?  Was there anything that could have been
  improved?


## End of Quarter Reflection (document of any kind)

The final piece of your Portfolio is a reflection to be done at the end of the
quarter.   This should be done anytime during week 10, by Monday of finals
week.  More details about this reflection will be posted as the quarter draws
to a close.  

Optional: Any other observations, reflections or thoughts you have

Finally, you are always welcome to include any other thoughts, observations,
notes to yourself, etc in your portfolio.  This portfolio is for you to compile
what you know about effective teaching all in one place, so feel free to make
it your own!

